---
layout: post
title: "COVIDiots at SF GoodWill"
---

I don't normally like complaining on the Internet, but I felt that
this situation was particularly egregious, and risks people's health
needlessly.

This morning, after months of putting off donating unwanted home
goods, I drove to the GoodWill drop-off center on Wisconsin Street in
San Francisco. There was a "supervisor" who waved me in. Despite
there being only one car in the parking lot, he had me park *right*
behind that car. It seemed too close, but I figured that I could keep
6 ft. of separation as long as the people in front of me didn't come
near my trunk, where I would be unloading ~10 bags. Sensing that this
would not be a fast drop-off, I donned my N95, and put a bandanna over
it as well to cover the exhaust valve.

The first thing that I noticed was that, while having masks, many of
the workers, including the supervisor, didn't cover their nose with
the mask, which defeats the purpose of the mask. Also, the workers in
blue shirts weren't keeping 6 feet of separation between themselves.

Secondly, I noticed that they had placed about 20 huge bins, ten on a
side, on the two sides of the parking lot. So instead of a quick
drop-off, now they were asking people to unpack all of their bags, and
then run around the parking lot trying to figure out where to put
things. The signs were very small, so you had to walk around to figure
out what each one said. This seemed to take what, from a donor's
perspective, would be a low-risk quick drop-off of goods, to something
that would require you to spend a fair amount of time unpacking your
bags, and sorting by walking around the parking lot, which was quickly
filling up behind me with more cars. It would be increasingly hard to
maneuver around the bins and cars while maintaining 6 feet of
separation between the workers and other donors milling about.

While I was asking the supervisor (the one with bare nostrils) about
what goes where, I put my hand up to my ear as in "I can't really hear
you", because there was a construction project right behind him, with
a jack-hammer going off. He decided to come a bit closer to me, within
6 feet. So I backed up instead of telling him to back up, to try to
avoid any misunderstandings. He instead took offense, saying, "Do you
have a problem?". I replied back to him, "No, it's just that you're
not maintaining six feet of space." He then replied, "Well, then you
came to the wrong place, because here it's real close." By that point,
there were five cars in the parking lot, all parked almost
bumper-to-bumper.

At that point I said, "... then I'm leaving"; I no longer felt
comfortable in that situation. While I want to support GoodWill's
mission, what they were doing there was destructive and harmful to
their donors and to their workers.

This experience has given me little hope that we can keep the economy
open. The SF Chronicle recently published an article saying that a
study found that in a random group of 25 people in SF, there was a 34%
chance that one of them has a SARS-CoV-2 infection. If businesses are
allowing people to aggregate in large numbers without proper
mask-wearing (e.g., covering your mouth *and* nose), and not caring
about maintaining 6 feet of separation, then the spread of the
pandemic will not be curtailed. I hope by writing this up I can bring
this to the attention of GoodWill and the City of San Francisco,
because my experience today was unacceptable from a public health
perspective. 